Log File Viewer
---------------

A simple web app in Node.JS, that fetches the logs from the log file at the server and displays the fetched data to the clint 10 records at a time.

A simple web app in Node.JS, that fetches the logs from the log file at the server and displays the fetched data to the clint 10 records at a time.

Considering the file size is too large , reading the file as a whole is not a good approach, as it will consume
                -----------------------
a lot of memory or RAM.

So the Node.JS Streams comes to the rescue.
      -----------------
Reading chunks of data at a given time rather than the whole file will take less memory.

Now how to get the start, end, next or previous 10 records in the file.

One solution is : https://github.com/abhishekg785/Log-File-Viewer

OR

Dumping data into DB ( i am using MongoDB ) for the first time only and keeping the records of the files which have been read by the user,
so that the file is not read for the subsequent request to the server by client.

Now this has one overhead of reading and storing the entire file at the very first time, but after that ,
i have cached the file name which has been read already and thus no need of reading and storing the file each time a user makes request.
Now the things become quite simple as i have to just make queries into the DB and this takes very less time and i can easily fetch log data and take the corresponding user action.

I have completely implemented this things it works properly according to the users action.
So, when a user queries for a file, it searches for file status => ( if the file is read or not ) =>
if( file is read) {
  do not read and store the file
  Go directly and query into the MongoDB
}
Else {
  Read the file using streams and then store into the mongoDB line by line
  Make query into the DB
}

Note : The good appraoch will be using elk stack i.e using somethings like logstash , elastic search or graylog etc.

Steps to Run the project:

1. cd into the project
2. do 'sudo npm install' to install npm modules
3. node bin/www


Testing
-------

I have used the following tools for testing :
Mocha  : for testing
Chai   : for assertion
Sinon  : for stubs and spies implementations

The test cases are present on the test folder inside the project dir.
i.e /test

This is how to run the test cases :

for the main.js file ( /app/public/js/main.js)

    - Simply open the file testRunner.html file in the browser and it will run the test cases for the main.js file.

for the node js modules :

    - Simply run the command => npm run test
    This will run all the test files present in the test folder.
